# What are software updates?

Software development is a long process, and many teams work together to build
the software. You can relate it to the car manufacturing process. In the car
manufacturing process, different groups work together on a single car, like
engineers design a car engine, tire technician decides upon tires, quality
engineer inspects the vehicle for safety and performance, etc. 

::: warning What is Software?
:bulb:
The software is the name given to all the programs that run on computer/phone
hardware. It can be anything like your Operating System (Windows, Android,
IoS), Apps like Google Chrome, Microsoft Word, FaceTime, etc.
:::

## Software Updates for fixing bugs

In software development, many teams like Software Developers, Software
Engineers, Quality Engineers, Software Architects, etc works together for
developing software. After software is developed and released, the developers
may come across some unintended errors. These errors are known as bugs. Bugs
are software vulnerability which may add loopholes in the software. So the
software updates are intended for fixing bugs. Fixing bugs is very important
and so the updating the software. Software updates intended for fixing the bugs
are known as Security Updates.

<SoftwareUpdates-Security />

## Software Updates for adding new features 

Sometimes, software updates happen to add extra features to the existing
software. On developed software, the developers get feedback from the users
that something is missing or the developer may consider to add some more useful
features. These software updates intended for adding new features are called
"Optional Updates," "Recommended Updates" or "Upgrades."

<SoftwareUpdates-NewFeatures />

## Take Away

Software development is a running process, and many teams collaborate to build
it. It may happen software may contain an unintended defect or missing
functionality. Fixing errors and/or adding new features to existing software is
fix by software updates.

Software updates are of two types : 1) Software Updates for fixing bugs
(Security Updates) 2) Software Updates for adding new features
(Optional/Recommended Updates)
