# Avoiding Ransomware

Now that you know what ransomware is, it's important to take steps to ensure
you're never a victim of it.  Avoiding ransomware involves an understanding of
the many vulnerabilities that can lead to an attack. 

**Email Security**

Many ransomware attacks originate in the email inbox.  According to a 2016
report conducted by PhishMe, 93% of all phishing emails contain encryption
ransomware. These emails will include an attachment and instructions asking you
to open it in order to launch the attack.  We cover phishing emails more in
depth in the section "Phishing".

**Backups**
 
File backups are one of those things you never realize the value of preparing
until you need it. There are many other computer related incidents you may need
a backup for, so it's a great practice in general. We cover backups more in
depth in the "Backups" section. 

**Keep all Software Up To Date**

Two famous ransomware attacks WannaCry and Petna both took advantage of
vulnerabilities in computers that had not been updated. Hackers find their
nesting grounds for malware in unsupported and outdated systems. These systems
have unpatched security exploits that allow for direct access to the machine.
This can even render any firewall or antivirus useless. It's important to keep
your software and apps up to date in terms of available updates. We cover the
importance of software updates more in depth in the "Software Updates" section. 

**Learn to Identify Fake Links**

Another common way for hackers to deliver ransomware to your computer is
through fake websites advertising free content. These download links are often
disguised as the content the user wants to download. Majority of those sites
lead to illegal and unethical methods of receiving that content to begin with,
so it is best to stay clear of them completely. We cover fake links more in
depth in the "Phishing" section under fake links. 


**Have a Strong Combination of Security Software** 

A combination of a firewall, an anti-virus program, and an anti-malware program
is recommended to help protect you. However, even the best of the best is not
always guaranteed to save you from every attack.
