# How To Respond To A Ransomware Attack

If unfortunately you do fall victim to ransomware, there is a recommended
procedure in the steps you need to take to handle the situation. 

**Prevent Spread** 

As soon as you realize your computer is under an attack, make sure the malware
does not spread to other computers on the same network as you. Ransomware
attacks often attempt to infect as many machines as possible on the network the
first machine was connected to. It is advised to immediately disconnect any
ethernet wires, disconnect from your wi-fi network, and disconnect any other
connected devices such as bluetooth, NFC devices, and any other wired
connection. 


**Identify The Source**

Try to recap what files could have potentially caused this. Have you downloaded
any files from a site you're not used to? What about email attachments from
someone or some "company" that may end up having been a phishing scam? 

**Assess The Damages**

It is important for you to know the extent of damages. Can you access files in
certain folders? Are there usb devices you were connected to that also seem to
be rendered unusable? Some ransomware attacks such as certain web-based ones
are just designed to scare you and your files are not actually gone. 

**Determine Next Steps**

Typically there are 3 plans you can take next. 

1) Restore From Backup

If you have a file backup from a recent enough date this will be your best
option. Before you proceed, make sure you completely wiped your infected
system. If you don't, you may risk having your backup be unusable as well.
After restoring make sure you have all the data and applications you needed. 

2) Accept The Loss

There's not much to do in this event that results in a good situation for you.
You will need to just wipe the system and completely start again. Perhaps keep
the encrypted files backed up and look for a way to decrypt them in the future. 

3) Pay The Ransom

This is the least recommended method. Many law enforcement officials advise
against it as well. You run the risk of making a payment and still having your
files unusable. However, in a last case of desperation this may be the only way
to get your files back. 
