**What kinds of breaches or leaks determine an obligation to report?**

There is no uniform definition of PI, but for most states and industries it includes an individual’s first and last name, social security number, financial account number and its password or PIN, medical or mental health information, username or email address with a password to access an online account, and driver’s license or state identification number.<sup>65</sup> For most states, there is a safe harbor from data breach liability and no obligation to report if PI is redacted or encrypted (so long as the encryption key has not been stolen).<sup>66</sup> Additionally, for most states, PI does not include public information that is lawfully made available to the general public from federal, state, or local government records.<sup>67</sup> 

In Georgia, PI means an individual’s first name or first initial and last name, in combination with at least one of the following data elements, when either the name or the data elements are not encrypted or redacted: (1) a social security number, a driver’s license number, or state identification card number; (2) an account number, credit card number, or debit card number, if the number could be used without additional identifying information, access codes, or passwords; and (3) account passwords or personal identification numbers or other access code.<sup>68</sup> There is a safe harbor in Georgia for encrypted information, with notice required only for a breach of “unencrypted personal information.”<sup>69</sup> 

The type of data breach or leak can also determine whether reporting is required by law. The majority of states and industries provide that there is no duty to report a breach if, after a reasonable investigation by the business or consultation with law enforcement, it can be reasonably determined that the breach has not and will not cause financial harm to the affected individual, result in identity theft or fraud, or lead to other misuse of the breached PI.<sup>70</sup> 

Moreover, most states and industries have a “good faith” exception, which states that there is no need for notification if PI was accessed or acquired by an employee or agent of the business in good faith.<sup>71</sup> Typically, this exception applies only if the employee’s acquisition of PI relates to or furthers a legitimate business purpose and is not subject to further unauthorized use or exposure.<sup>72</sup> Georgia is one of the states that has a “good faith” exception, but it applies only to information brokers and data collectors.<sup>73</sup> 

With state laws, federal laws, and industry standards overlapping, when are businesses and organizations ever exempt from adhering to data breach or leak requirements? In some states with general data breach reporting laws, companies that are subject to other laws (such as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act or HIPAA), or to state or federal regulators that address breaches, are either deemed to be in compliance with, or exempted from, some or all of the state’s breach notification requirements.<sup>74</sup> Under Georgia’s data breach notification statute concerning information brokers and data collectors, there is no express safe harbor for federally regulated entities. However, information brokers, data collectors, and telecommunications companies in Georgia are deemed to be in compliance with the notification requirements of this statute if they maintain their own notification procedures as part of an information security policy for the treatment of PI and are otherwise consistent with the timing requirements of the state statute.<sup>75</sup>  



**Does Commercial-off-the-shelf software (COTS) affect cybersecurity reporting and liability?**

Another consideration for cybersecurity reporting is the type of software a business uses. Commercial-off-the-shelf software (COTS) products are products that are ready-made and sold as packages to fulfill business needs.<sup>76</sup> COTS software is a noticeable and attractive target for hackers because it is large, complex, and built with fragile and changing technology operating in complex environments that are also constantly changing.<sup>77</sup> It is also targeted because the liability of its developers is limited by law and by the low expectations of the customers.<sup>78</sup> Many software vendors provide public assertions of their security, but these are rarely detailed or measurable.<sup>79</sup>  Most vendors publish little or nothing about their security-related coding practices, and installation manuals for COTS products are also light on discussions of security.<sup>80</sup> Product risks may include ineffective management of security patches and vulnerabilities, failure of business and functional requirements, and disparities between available controls and security needs.<sup>81</sup> As for liability, almost all COTS products software comes with a user agreement that unambiguously releases the vendor of any liability—direct or indirect—even if that failure is a consequence of a known flaw in the product.<sup>82</sup> With these limitations in mind, it is important for businesses to conduct online research focusing on security-related sites and user groups, collect data on past security problems, and consult experts (if necessary) to formulate questions for the vendor before purchasing a COTS product.<sup>83</sup> 

