# Firewalls

Internet is the network of computers which are connected with each other.
When the data is transfer over the internet it is transferred in the form of
packets. For instance, when you send the email with the attachment to
someone, the data is divided into packets and send on the internet. At the
receiving end, the data also arrives in form of packets and is manipulated
accordingly.

As internet, is the world wide network, and there are many devices connected
to each other. You can imagine how much packets must be getting transferred
every day. Traffic management mechanism is implemented in the network for
smooth delivery of the data through packets.

Right now you are reading this manual, so the data you are reading now must
have received on your device inform of packets. The actual path followed is
from the uga.edu server data is sent in form of packets, which travels
internet to reach your router. Your router then direct the packets to your
device.

As we said, internet is wide network and you are connected to it. So you are
the part of that wide network and is interacting with world. The data on the
internet flows in two ways. That means from your internet to computer and
vice-versa.

So someone need to monitor what is sent and what is received from the
internet. Firewall can be considered as the dedicated bodyguard which allows
only the guests having valid invitation for the party. Firewalls monitors the
data coming in and going out of the network and hence protect you.

You may get some unintended and unwelcome data packets. This packets may
contain some malicious data which can cause some threat to your device. Also,
something unwanted may get transfer from your device on internet. There may
be a malicious request to your device, asking for some information. You must
be protected from such scenarios and firewall help in achieving it.

Firewalls can be either software running on your computer or a physical
firewall device.

## Takeaway
