# Public Networks 

Picture yourself out at your favorite coffee shop or your local library. You
need to use the internet but you don't want to use your phone's data plan, so
you get onto the free wi-fi the place offers. It's all very convenient. Both
for you and the potential hackers. When you use public WiFi and networks,
you're inherently vulnerable to being spied on. Most public WiFi networks offer
little to no encryption and many times they are not password protected. This
allows anyone to see all traffic and activity on the network. The even scarier
part is that it doesn't even require a lot of "hacker skills". There's easy to
use software out there that lets you see details about all the traffic on the
network. 

**Man In The Middle Attack**

An example of a method to exploit security holes in network connections is the
man in the middle attack. The attack refers to a third party who listens in to
communication between your device and the network and often reroutes or
intercepts certain information by pretending to be an endpoint and having the
two parties believe they are directly communicating with each other. One way a
hacker can do this is to create a fake WiFi hotspot. All of your internet
traffic then goes through the hacker's computer where he can potentially gain
access to personal information.

**How To Stay Safe**

Although there are many risks to public networks, there are ways to stay safe.
One way to achieve this to ensure you are only using https connections. We
discuss https more in depth in the encryption section of this manual. These
connections offer another layer of encryption to help keep your web browsing
safe and many sites offer this by default. Another way to stay safe is to use a
virtual private network. VPNs are also discussed more in depth in a page
dedicated to it within this section. VPNs keep all of your browsing encrypted. 
